<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>LP 3 M7 - Introduction to Azure Application Gateway</title>
    <link href="style/main.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body><h1>LP 3 M7 - Introduction to Azure Application Gateway</h1>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/intro-to-azure-application-gateway/?WT.mc_id=api_CatalogApi</p>
<h2>Unit 3.7.1 - Introduction</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/intro-to-azure-application-gateway/1-introduction</p>
<h3>Introduction</h3>
<p>Azure Application Gateway is an Azure service that processes traffic to web apps that are hosted on a pool of web servers. The processing performed by Azure Application Gateway includes load balancing HTTP traffic and inspecting traffic using web application firewall. It also includes encrypting traffic between users and an application gateway, and encrypting traffic between application servers and an application gateway.</p>
<p>Adatum is a new and expanding online commerce store that sells industrial drones. You're responsible for networking at the company. Adatum has several web applications that are hosted on computers in its on-premises datacenter. At the moment, a special but aging hardware device is deployed on the Adatum perimeter network that manages traffic to the web applications hosted on these computers. You want to retire this device and have traffic mediated by an Azure service.</p>
<p>To meet your goals, you need to ensure that the Azure service replicates the functionality that the special hardware currently provides. Important functionality that must be present in the replacement service includes:</p>
<p>- Detect if one of the on-premises servers becomes unavailable so that traffic is no longer directed to it.</p>
<p>- TLS (Transport Layer Security) termination functionality to reduce the amount of CPU capacity consumed by encryption and decryption operations.</p>
<p>- Session affinity to ensure that the same back-end pool host always serves a client connection to a web application.</p>
<p>- Security filtering of malicious traffic such as SQL injection and cross site scripting attacks.</p>
<p>This module explains what Azure Application Gateway does, how it works, and when you should choose to use Azure Application Gateway as a solution to meet your organization’s needs.</p>
<h3>Learning objectives</h3>
<p>In this module, you'll:</p>
<p>- Learn what Azure Application Gateway is and the functionality it provides.</p>
<p>- Determine whether Azure Application Gateway meets the needs of your organization.</p>
<h3>Prerequisites</h3>
<p>- Understanding of basic networking concepts</p>
<p>- Familiarity with Azure virtual machines and Azure App Service</p>
<p>- Familiarity with Azure virtual networking</p>
<h2>Unit 3.7.2 - What is Azure Application Gateway?</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/intro-to-azure-application-gateway/2-what-is-azure-application-gateway</p>
<h3>What is Azure Application Gateway?</h3>
<p>Azure Application Gateway manages the requests that client applications send to web apps that are hosted on a pool of web servers. The pool of web servers can be Azure virtual machines, Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets, Azure App Service, and even on-premises servers.</p>
<p>Application Gateway provides features such as load balancing HTTP traffic and web application firewall. It provides support for TLS/SSL encryption of traffic between users and an application gateway and between application servers and an application gateway.</p>
<p>Application Gateway uses a round-robin process to load balance requests to the servers in each back-end pool. Session stickiness ensures client requests in the same session are routed to the same back-end server. Session stickiness is especially important with e-commerce applications where you don’t want a transaction to be disrupted because the load balancer bounces it around between back-end servers.</p>
<p>Azure Application Gateway includes the following features:</p>
<p>- Support for the HTTP, HTTPS, HTTP/2, and WebSocket protocols.</p>
<p>- A web application firewall to protect against web application vulnerabilities.</p>
<p>- End-to-end request encryption.</p>
<p>- Autoscaling to dynamically adjust capacity as your web traffic load change.</p>
<p>- Connection draining allowing graceful removal of back-end pool members during planned service updates.</p>
<h2>Unit 3.7.3 - How Azure Application Gateway works</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/intro-to-azure-application-gateway/3-how-azure-application-gateway-works</p>
<h3>How Azure Application Gateway works</h3>
<p>Azure Application Gateway has a series of components that combine to securely route and load balance requests across a pool of web servers. Application Gateway includes the following components:</p>
<p>- Front-end IP address : Client requests are received through a front-end IP address. You can configure Application Gateway to have a public IP address, a private IP address, or both. Application Gateway can't have more than one public IP address and one private IP address.</p>
<p>- Listeners : Application Gateway uses one or more listeners to receive incoming requests. A listener accepts traffic arriving on a specified combination of protocol, port, host, and IP address. Each listener routes requests to a back-end pool of servers following routing rules that you specify. A listener can be Basic or Multi-site. A Basic listener only routes a request based on the path in the URL. A Multi-site listener can also route requests using the hostname element of the URL. Listeners also handle TLS/SSL certificates for securing your application between the user and Application Gateway.</p>
<p>- Routing rules : A routing rule binds a listener to the back-end pools. A rule specifies how to interpret the hostname and path elements in the URL of a request and direct the request to the appropriate back-end pool. A routing rule also has an associated set of HTTP settings. These HTTP settings indicate whether (and how) traffic is encrypted between Application Gateway and the back-end servers. Other configuration information includes Protocol, Session stickiness, Connection draining, Request timeout period, and Health probes.</p>
<h3>Load balancing in Application Gateway</h3>
<p>Application Gateway uses a round-robin mechanism to automatically load balance the requests sent to the servers in each back-end pool. Load-balancing works with the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Layer 7 routing implemented by Application Gateway routing, which means that it load balances requests based on the routing parameters (host names and paths) used by the Application Gateway rules. In comparison, other load balancers, such as Azure Load Balancer, function at the OSI Layer 4 level and distribute traffic based on the IP address of the target of a request.</p>
<p>You can configure session stickiness if you need to ensure that all requests for a client in the same session are routed to the same server in a back-end pool.</p>
<h3>Web application firewall</h3>
<p>The web application firewall (WAF) is an optional component that handles incoming requests before they reach a listener. The web application firewall checks each request for many common threats based on the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). Common threats include: SQL-injection, Cross-site scripting, Command injection, HTTP request smuggling, HTTP response splitting, Remote file inclusion, Bots, crawlers, and scanners, and HTTP protocol violations and anomalies.</p>
<p>OWASP defines a set of generic rules for detecting attacks. These rules are referred to as the Core Rule Set (CRS). The rule sets are under continuous review as attacks evolve in sophistication. WAF supports four rule sets: CRS 3.2, 3.1, 3.0 and 2.2.9. CRS 3.1 is the default. If necessary, you can opt to select only specific rules in a rule set, targeting certain threats. Additionally, you can customize the firewall to specify which elements in a request to examine, and limit the size of messages to prevent massive uploads from overwhelming your servers.</p>
<h3>Back-end pools</h3>
<p>A back-end pool is a collection of web servers that can be made up of: a fixed set of virtual machines, a virtual machine scale-set, an app hosted by Azure App Services, or a collection of on-premises servers.</p>
<p>Each back-end pool has an associated load balancer that distributes work across the pool. When configuring the pool, you provide the IP address or name of each web server. All the servers in the back-end pool should be configured in the same way, including their security settings.</p>
<p>If you're using TLS/SSL, the back-end pool has an HTTP setting that references a certificate used to authenticate the back-end servers. The gateway re-encrypts the traffic by using this certificate before sending it to one of your servers in the back-end pool.</p>
<p>If you're using Azure App Service to host the back-end application, you don't need to install any certificates in Application Gateway to connect to the back-end pool. All communications are automatically encrypted. Application Gateway trusts the servers because Azure manages them.</p>
<p>Application Gateway uses a rule to specify how to direct the messages that it receives on its incoming port to the servers in the back-end pool. If the servers are using TLS/SSL, you must configure the rule to indicate:</p>
<p>- That your servers expect traffic through the HTTPS protocol.</p>
<p>- Which certificate to use to encrypt traffic and authenticate the connection to a server.</p>
<h3>Application Gateway routing</h3>
<p>When the gateway routes a client request to a web server in the back-end pool, it uses a set of rules configured for the gateway to determine where the request should go. There are two primary methods of routing this client request traffic: path-based routing and multiple-site routing.</p>
<h4>Path-based routing</h4>
<p>Path-based routing sends requests with different URL paths to different pools of back-end servers. For example, you could direct requests with the path /video/* to a back-end pool containing servers that are optimized to handle video streaming, and direct /images/* requests to a pool of servers that handle image retrieval.</p>
<h4>Multiple-site routing</h4>
<p>Multiple-site routing configures more than one web application on the same Application Gateway instance. In a multi-site configuration, you register multiple domain name system names (CNAMEs) for the IP address of the application gateway, specifying the name of each site. Application Gateway uses separate listeners to wait for requests for each site. Each listener passes the request to a different rule, which can route the requests to servers in a different back-end pool. For example, you could direct all requests for http://contoso.com to servers in one back-end pool, and requests for http://fabrikam.com to another back-end pool. The following diagram shows this configuration:</p>
<p>http://contoso.com</p>
<p>http://fabrikam.com</p>
<p>Multi-site configurations are useful for supporting multitenant applications, where each tenant has its own set of virtual machines or other resources hosting a web application.</p>
<p>Application Gateway routing also includes these features:</p>
<p>- Redirection . Redirection can be used to another site, or from HTTP to HTTPS.</p>
<p>- Rewrite HTTP headers . HTTP headers allow the client and server to pass parameter information with the request or the response.</p>
<p>- Custom error pages . Application Gateway allows you to create custom error pages instead of displaying default error pages. You can use your own branding and layout using a custom error page.</p>
<h3>TLS/SSL termination</h3>
<p>When you terminate the TLS/SSL connection at the application gateway, it offloads the CPU-intensive TLS/SSL termination workload from your servers. Also, you don’t need to install certificates and configure TLS/SSL on your servers.</p>
<p>If you need end-to-end encryption, Application Gateway can decrypt the traffic on the gateway by using your private key, then re-encrypt again with the public key of the service running in the back-end pool.</p>
<p>Traffic enters the gateway through a front-end port. You can open many ports, and Application Gateway can receive messages on any of these ports. A listener is the first thing that your traffic meets when entering the gateway through a port. The listener is set up to listen for a specific host name, and a specific port on a specific IP address. The listener can use an TLS/SSL certificate to decrypt the traffic that enters the gateway. The listener then uses a rule that you define to direct the incoming requests to a back-end pool.</p>
<p>Exposing your website or web application through the application gateway also means that you don't directly connect your servers to the web. You're exposing only port 80 or port 443 on the application gateway, which is then forwarded to the back-end pool server. In this configuration, your web servers aren't directly accessible from the internet, which reduces the attack surface of your infrastructure.</p>
<h3>Health probes</h3>
<p>Health probes determine which servers are available for load-balancing in a back-end pool. The Application Gateway uses a health probe to send a request to a server. When the server returns an HTTP response with a status code between 200 and 399, the server is considered healthy. If you don't configure a health probe, Application Gateway creates a default probe that waits for 30 seconds before deciding that a server is unavailable. Health probes ensure that traffic isn't directed to a nonresponsive or failed web endpoint in the back-end pool.</p>
<h3>Autoscaling</h3>
<p>Application Gateway supports autoscaling, and can scale up or down based on changing traffic load patterns. Autoscaling also removes the requirement to choose a deployment size or instance count during provisioning.</p>
<h3>WebSocket and HTTP/2 traffic</h3>
<p>Application Gateway provides native support for the WebSocket and HTTP/2 protocols. The WebSocket and HTTP/2 protocols enable full duplex communication between a server and a client over a long-running Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) connection. This type of communication is more interactive between the web server and the client, and can be bidirectional without the need for polling as required in HTTP-based implementations. These protocols have low overhead (unlike HTTP) and can reuse the same TCP connection for multiple request/responses resulting in a more efficient resource utilization. These protocols are designed to work over traditional HTTP ports of 80 and 443.</p>
<h2>Unit 3.7.4 - When to use Azure Application Gateway</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/intro-to-azure-application-gateway/4-when-to-use-azure-application-gateway</p>
<h3>When to use Azure Application Gateway</h3>
<p>Azure Application Gateway can meet your organization’s needs for the following reasons:</p>
<p>- Azure Application Gateway routing allows traffic to be directed from an endpoint in Azure to a back-end pool made up of servers running in Adatum’s on-premises datacenter. The health-probe functionality of Azure Application Gateway ensures that traffic isn't being directed to any server that becomes unavailable.</p>
<p>- Azure Application Gateway TLS termination functionality reduces the amount of CPU capacity that servers in the back-end pool allocate to encryption and decryption operations.</p>
<p>- Azure Application Gateway allows Adatum to use a web application firewall to block cross-site scripting and SQL injection traffic before it reaches servers in the back-end pool.</p>
<p>- Azure Application Gateway supports session affinity. This support is required because the several web applications deployed by Adatum use user session state information stored locally on individual servers in the back-end pool.</p>
<h3>When not to use Azure Application Gateway</h3>
<p>Azure Application Gateway isn’t appropriate if you have a web application that doesn’t require load balancing. For example, if you have a web application that only receives a small amount of traffic and the existing infrastructure already competently deals with the existing load, there's no need to deploy a back-end pool of web apps or virtual machines and no need for Application Gateway.</p>
<p>Azure provides other load balancing solutions, including Azure Front Door, Azure Traffic Manager, and Azure Load Balancer. The following list describes the differences between these services:</p>
<p>- Front Door is an application delivery network that provides global load balancing and site acceleration service for web applications. It offers Layer 7 capabilities for your application like TLS/SSL offload, path-based routing, fast failover, web application firewall, and caching to improve performance and high-availability of your applications. Choose this option in scenarios such as load balancing a web app deployed across multiple Azure regions.</p>
<p>- Traffic Manager is a DNS-based traffic load balancer that enables you to distribute traffic optimally to services across global Azure regions while providing high availability and responsiveness. Because Traffic Manager is a DNS-based load-balancing service, it load-balances only at the domain level. For that reason, it can't fail over as quickly as Front Door because of common challenges around DNS caching and systems not honoring DNS TTLs.</p>
<p>- Azure Load Balancer is a high-performance, ultra low-latency Layer 4 load-balancing service (inbound and outbound) for all UDP and TCP protocols. Azure Load Balancer is built to handle millions of requests per second while ensuring that your solution is highly available. Azure Load Balancer is zone-redundant, ensuring high availability across availability zones. Azure Load Balancer works within a region rather than globally.</p>
<h2>Unit 3.7.5 - Module assessment</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/intro-to-azure-application-gateway/5-knowledge-check</p>
<h3>Module assessment</h3>
<p>Choose the best response for each question.</p>
<h3>Check your knowledge</h3>
<h2>Unit 3.7.6 - Summary</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/intro-to-azure-application-gateway/6-summary</p>
<h3>Summary</h3>
<p>In this module, you learned about Azure Application Gateway, a service that allows you to manage the requests that client applications can send to a web app. You learned that Application Gateway routes traffic to a pool of web servers based on the URL of a request. The pool of web servers can be Azure virtual machines, Azure virtual machine scale sets, Azure App Service, and even on-premises servers. You learned that Application Gateway provides features such as load balancing HTTP traffic, a web application firewall, and support for TLS/SSL encryption of your data. You also learned that Application Gateway supports encrypting traffic between users and an application gateway, and between application servers and an application gateway.</p>
<h3>Learn more</h3>
<p>- What is Azure Application Gateway?</p>
<p>- Azure Application Gateway features</p>
<p>- How an application gateway works</p>
<p>- Application gateway components</p>
<p>- Load balance your web service traffic with Application Gateway</p></body>
</html>
