<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>LP 6 M3 - Monitor your Azure virtual machines with Azure Monitor</title>
    <link href="style/main.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body><h1>LP 6 M3 - Monitor your Azure virtual machines with Azure Monitor</h1>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/monitor-azure-vm-using-diagnostic-data/?WT.mc_id=api_CatalogApi</p>
<h2>Unit 6.3.1 - Introduction</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/monitor-azure-vm-using-diagnostic-data/1-introduction</p>
<h3>Introduction</h3>
<p>Suppose you're the IT administrator for a musical group's website hosted on Azure virtual machines (VMs). The website runs mission-critical services for the group, including ticket booking, venue information, and tour updates. The website must respond quickly and remain accessible during frequent updates and spikes in traffic.</p>
<p>You need to maintain sufficient VM size and memory to effectively host the website without incurring unnecessary costs. You also need to proactively prevent and quickly respond to any access, security, and performance issues. To help achieve these objectives, you want to quickly and easily monitor your VMs' traffic, health, performance, and events.</p>
<p>Azure Monitor provides built-in and customizable monitoring abilities. You can use these to track the health, performance, and behavior of the VM host and the operating system, workloads, and applications running on your VM. This learning module shows you how to view VM host monitoring data, set up recommended alert rules, and use VM insights and custom data collection rules (DCRs) to collect and analyze monitoring data from inside your VMs.</p>
<h3>Prerequisites</h3>
<p>To complete this module, you need the following prerequisites:</p>
<p>- Familiarity with virtualization, Azure portal navigation, and Azure VMs.</p>
<p>- Access to an Azure subscription with at least Contributor role. If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a free account and add a subscription before you begin. If you're a student, you can take advantage of the Azure for students offer.</p>
<h3>Learning objectives</h3>
<p>- Understand which monitoring data you need to collect from your VM.</p>
<p>- Enable and view recommended alerts and diagnostics.</p>
<p>- Use Azure Monitor to collect and analyze VM host data.</p>
<p>- Use Azure Monitor Agent to collect VM client performance metrics and event logs.</p>
<h2>Unit 6.3.2 - Monitoring for Azure VMs</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/monitor-azure-vm-using-diagnostic-data/2-monitor-vm-health</p>
<h3>Monitoring for Azure VMs</h3>
<p>In this unit, you explore Azure monitoring capabilities for VMs, and the types of monitoring data you can collect and analyze with Azure Monitor. Azure Monitor is a comprehensive monitoring solution for collecting, analyzing, and responding to monitoring data from Azure and non-Azure resources, including VMs. Azure Monitor has two main monitoring features: Azure Monitor Metrics and Azure Monitor Logs.</p>
<p>Metrics are numerical values collected at predetermined intervals to describe some aspect of a system. Metrics can measure VM performance, resource utilization, error counts, user responses, or any other aspect of the system that you can quantify. Azure Monitor Metrics automatically monitors a predefined set of metrics for every Azure VM, and retains the data for 93 days with some exceptions.</p>
<p>Logs are recorded system events that contain a timestamp and different types of structured or free-form data. Azure automatically records activity logs for all Azure resources. This data is available at the resource level. Azure Monitor doesn't collect logs by default, but you can configure Azure Monitor Logs to collect from any Azure resource. Azure Monitor Logs stores log data in a Log Analytics workspace for querying and analysis.</p>
<h3>VM monitoring layers</h3>
<p>Azure VMs have several layers that require monitoring. Each of the following layers has a distinct set of telemetry and monitoring requirements.</p>
<p>- Host VM</p>
<p>- Guest operating system (OS)</p>
<p>- Client workloads</p>
<p>- Applications that run on the VM</p>
<h3>Host VM monitoring</h3>
<p>The VM host represents the compute, storage, and network resources that Azure allocates to the VM.</p>
<h4>VM host metrics</h4>
<p>VM host metrics measure technical aspects of the VM such as processor utilization and whether the machine is running. You can use VM host metrics to:</p>
<p>- Trigger an alert when your VM is reaching its disk or CPU limits.</p>
<p>- Identify trends or patterns.</p>
<p>- Control your operational costs by sizing VMs according to usage and demand.</p>
<p>Azure automatically collects basic metrics for VM hosts. On the VM's Overview page in the Azure portal, you can see built-in graphs for the following important VM host metrics.</p>
<p>- VM availability</p>
<p>- CPU usage percentage (average)</p>
<p>- OS disk usage (total)</p>
<p>- Network operations (total)</p>
<p>- Disk operations per second (average)</p>
<p>You can use Azure Monitor Metrics Explorer to plot more metrics graphs, investigate changes, and visually correlate metrics trends for your VMs. With Metrics Explorer you can:</p>
<p>- Plot multiple metrics on a graph to see how much traffic hits your VM and how the VM performs.</p>
<p>- Track the same metric over multiple VMs in a resource group or other scope, and use splitting to show each VM on the graph.</p>
<p>- Select flexible time ranges and granularity.</p>
<p>- Specify many other settings such as chart type and value ranges.</p>
<p>- Send graphs to workbooks or pin them to dashboards for quickly viewing health and performance.</p>
<p>- Group metrics by time intervals, geographic regions, server clusters, or application components.</p>
<h4>Recommended alert rules</h4>
<p>Alerts proactively notify you of specified occurrences and patterns in your VM host metrics. Recommended alert rules are a predefined set of alert rules based on commonly monitored host metrics. These rules define recommended CPU, memory, disk, and network usage levels to alert on. The rules also include VM availability, which alerts you when the VM stops running.</p>
<p>You can quickly enable and configure recommended alert rules when you create an Azure VM, or afterwards from the VM's portal page. You can also view, configure, and create custom alerts by using Azure Monitor Alerts.</p>
<h4>Activity logs</h4>
<p>Azure Monitor automatically records and displays activity logs for Azure VMs. Activity logs include information like VM startup or modifications. You can create diagnostic settings to send activity logs to the following destinations:</p>
<p>- Azure Monitor Logs: For more complex querying and alerting, and for longer retention up to two years.</p>
<p>- Azure Storage: For cheaper, long-term archiving.</p>
<p>- Azure Event Hubs: To forward outside of Azure.</p>
<h4>Boot diagnostics</h4>
<p>Boot diagnostics are host logs you can use to help troubleshoot boot issues with your VMs. You can enable boot diagnostics by default when you create a VM, or afterwards for existing VMs.</p>
<p>Once you enable boot diagnostics, you can see screenshots from the VM's hypervisor for both Windows and Linux machines, and view the serial console log output of the VM boot sequence for Linux machines. Boot diagnostics stores data in a managed storage account.</p>
<h3>Guest OS, client workload, and application monitoring</h3>
<p>VM client monitoring can include monitoring the operating system (OS), workloads, and applications that run on the VM. To collect metrics and logs from guest OS and client workloads and applications, you need to install Azure Monitor Agent and set up a DCR.</p>
<p>DCRs define what data to collect and where to send that data. You can use a DCR to send Azure Monitor metrics data, or performance counters , to Azure Monitor Logs or Azure Monitor Metrics. You can also send event log data to Azure Monitor Logs. In other words, Azure Monitor Metrics can store only metrics data, but Azure Monitor Logs can store both metrics and event logs.</p>
<h4>VM insights</h4>
<p>VM insights is an Azure Monitor feature that helps get you started monitoring your VM clients. VM insights is especially useful for exploring overall VM usage and performance when you don't yet know the metric of primary interest. VM insights provides:</p>
<p>- Simplified Azure Monitor Agent onboarding to enable monitoring a VM's guest OS and workloads.</p>
<p>- A preconfigured DCR that monitors and collects the most common performance counters for Windows and Linux.</p>
<p>- Predefined trending performance metrics charts and workbooks from the VM's guest OS.</p>
<p>- A set of predefined workbooks that show collected VM client metrics over time.</p>
<p>- Optionally, a collection of processes running on the VM, dependencies with other services, and a dependency map that displays interconnected components with other VMs and external sources.</p>
<p>Predefined VM insights workbooks show performance, connections, active ports, traffic, and other collected data from one or several VMs. You can view VM insights data directly from a single VM, or see a combined view of multiple VMs to view and assess trends and patterns across VMs. You can edit the prebuilt workbook configurations, or create your own custom workbooks.</p>
<h4>Client event log data</h4>
<p>VM insights creates a DCR that collects a specific set of performance counters. To collect other data, such as event logs, you can create a separate DCR that specifies the data you want to collect from the VM and where to send it. Azure Monitor stores collected log data in a Log Analytics workspace. From there, you can access and analyze the data by using log queries written in Kusto Query Language (KQL).</p>
<h3>Check your knowledge</h3>
<h2>Unit 6.3.3 - Monitor VM host data</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/monitor-azure-vm-using-diagnostic-data/3-exercise-create-virtual-machine</p>
<h3>Monitor VM host data</h3>
<p>You want to monitor the VMs that host your website, so you decide to quickly create a VM in the Azure portal and evaluate its built-in monitoring capabilities. In this unit, you use the Azure portal to create a Linux VM with recommended alerts and boot diagnostics enabled. As soon as the VM starts up, Azure automatically begins collecting basic metrics and activity logs. You can then view built-in metrics graphs, activity logs, and boot diagnostics.</p>
<h3>Create a VM and enable recommended alerts</h3>
<p>- Sign in to the Azure portal , and in the Search field, enter virtual machines .</p>
<p>Sign in to the Azure portal , and in the Search field, enter virtual machines .</p>
<p>- On the Virtual machines page, select Create , and then select Azure virtual machine .</p>
<p>On the Virtual machines page, select Create , and then select Azure virtual machine .</p>
<p>- On the Basics tab of the Create a virtual machine page: In the Subscription field, select the correct subscription if not already selected. Under Resource group : Select Create new . Under Name , enter learn-monitor-vm-rg . Select OK . For Virtual machine name , enter monitored-linux-vm . For Image , select Ubuntu Server 20.04 LTS - x64 Gen2 .</p>
<p>On the Basics tab of the Create a virtual machine page:</p>
<p>- In the Subscription field, select the correct subscription if not already selected.</p>
<p>- Under Resource group : Select Create new . Under Name , enter learn-monitor-vm-rg . Select OK .</p>
<p>- Select Create new .</p>
<p>- Under Name , enter learn-monitor-vm-rg .</p>
<p>- Select OK .</p>
<p>- For Virtual machine name , enter monitored-linux-vm .</p>
<p>- For Image , select Ubuntu Server 20.04 LTS - x64 Gen2 .</p>
<p>- Leave the other settings at their current values, and select the Monitoring tab.</p>
<p>Leave the other settings at their current values, and select the Monitoring tab.</p>
<p>- On the Monitoring tab, select the checkbox next to Enable recommended alert rules .</p>
<p>On the Monitoring tab, select the checkbox next to Enable recommended alert rules .</p>
<p>- On the Set up recommended alert rules screen: Select all the listed alert rules if not already selected, and adjust the values if desired. Under Notify me by , select the checkbox next to Email , and enter an email address to receive alert notifications. Select Save .</p>
<p>On the Set up recommended alert rules screen:</p>
<p>- Select all the listed alert rules if not already selected, and adjust the values if desired.</p>
<p>- Under Notify me by , select the checkbox next to Email , and enter an email address to receive alert notifications.</p>
<p>- Select Save .</p>
<p>- Under Diagnostics , for Boot diagnostics , ensure that Enable with managed storage account (recommended) is selected. Note Don't select Enable OS guest diagnostics . The Linux Diagnostics Agent (LAD) is deprecated, and you can enable OS guest and client monitoring later.</p>
<p>Under Diagnostics , for Boot diagnostics , ensure that Enable with managed storage account (recommended) is selected.</p>
<p>Note</p>
<p>Don't select Enable OS guest diagnostics . The Linux Diagnostics Agent (LAD) is deprecated, and you can enable OS guest and client monitoring later.</p>
<p>- Select Review + create at the bottom of the page, and when validation passes, select Create .</p>
<p>Select Review + create at the bottom of the page, and when validation passes, select Create .</p>
<p>- On the Generate new key pair popup dialog box, select Download private key and create resource .</p>
<p>On the Generate new key pair popup dialog box, select Download private key and create resource .</p>
<p>It can take a few minutes to create the VM. When you get the notification that the VM is created, select Go to resource to see basic metrics data.</p>
<h3>View built-in metrics graphs</h3>
<p>Once your VM is created, Azure starts collecting basic metrics data automatically. Built-in metrics graphs, along with the recommended alerts you enabled, can help you monitor whether and when your VM encounters health or performance issues. You can then use more advanced monitoring and analytics capabilities to investigate issue causes and remediation.</p>
<p>- To view basic metrics graphs, on the VMs Overview page, select the Monitoring tab.</p>
<p>To view basic metrics graphs, on the VMs Overview page, select the Monitoring tab.</p>
<p>- Under Performance and utilization &gt; Platform metrics , review the following metrics graphs related to the VMs performance and utilization. Select Show more metrics if all the graphs don't appear immediately. VM Availability CPU (average) Disk bytes (total) Network (total) Disk operations/sec (average)</p>
<p>Under Performance and utilization &gt; Platform metrics , review the following metrics graphs related to the VMs performance and utilization. Select Show more metrics if all the graphs don't appear immediately.</p>
<p>- VM Availability</p>
<p>- CPU (average)</p>
<p>- Disk bytes (total)</p>
<p>- Network (total)</p>
<p>- Disk operations/sec (average)</p>
<p>- Under Guest OS metrics , notice that guest OS metrics aren't being collected yet. In the next units, you configure VM insights and data collection rules to collect guest OS metrics.</p>
<p>Under Guest OS metrics , notice that guest OS metrics aren't being collected yet. In the next units, you configure VM insights and data collection rules to collect guest OS metrics.</p>
<h3>View the activity log</h3>
<p>You can view the VMs activity log by selecting Activity log from the VMs left navigation menu. You can also retrieve entries by using PowerShell or the Azure CLI.</p>
<h3>View boot diagnostics</h3>
<p>You enabled boot diagnostics when you created the VM. You can view boot diagnostics to view boot data and troubleshoot startup issues.</p>
<p>- In the left navigation menu for the VM, select Boot diagnostics under Help .</p>
<p>In the left navigation menu for the VM, select Boot diagnostics under Help .</p>
<p>- On the Boot diagnostics page, select Screenshot to see a startup screenshot from the VMs hypervisor. Select Serial log to view log messages created when the VM started.</p>
<p>On the Boot diagnostics page, select Screenshot to see a startup screenshot from the VMs hypervisor. Select Serial log to view log messages created when the VM started.</p>
<h3>Check your knowledge</h3>
<h2>Unit 6.3.4 - Use Metrics Explorer to view detailed host metrics</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/monitor-azure-vm-using-diagnostic-data/4-view-host-metrics</p>
<h3>Use Metrics Explorer to view detailed host metrics</h3>
<p>You want to investigate how traffic flowing into your VM affects its CPU capability. If the built-in metrics charts for a VM don't already show the data you need, you can use Metrics Explorer to create customized metrics charts. In this unit, you plot a graph that displays your VM's maximum percentage CPU and average inbound flow data together.</p>
<p>Azure Monitor Metrics Explorer offers a UI for exploring and analyzing VM metrics. You can use Metrics Explorer to view and create custom charts for many VM host metrics in addition to the metrics shown on the built-in graphs.</p>
<h3>Understand Metrics Explorer</h3>
<p>To open Metrics Explorer, you can:</p>
<p>- Select Metrics from the VM's left navigation menu under Monitoring .</p>
<p>- Select the See all Metrics link next to Platform metrics on the Monitoring tab of the VM's Overview page.</p>
<p>- Select Metrics from the left navigation menu on the Azure Monitor Overview page.</p>
<p>In Metrics Explorer, you can select the following values from the dropdown fields:</p>
<p>- Scope: If you open Metrics Explorer from a VM, this field is prepopulated with the VM name. You can add more items with the same resource type (VMs) and location.</p>
<p>- Metric Namespace : Most resource types have only one namespace, but for some types, you must pick a namespace. For example, storage accounts have separate namespaces for files, tables, blobs, and queues.</p>
<p>- Metric : Each metrics namespace has many metrics available to choose from.</p>
<p>- Aggregation : For each metric, Metrics Explorer applies a default aggregation. You can use a different aggregation to get different information about the metric.</p>
<p>You can apply the following aggregation functions to metrics:</p>
<p>- Count : Counts the number of data points.</p>
<p>- Average (Avg) : Calculates the arithmetic mean of values.</p>
<p>- Maximum (Max) : Identifies the highest value.</p>
<p>- Minimum (Min) : Identifies the lowest value.</p>
<p>- Sum : Adds up all the values.</p>
<p>You can select flexible time ranges for graphs from the past 30 minutes to the last 30 days, or custom ranges. You can specify time interval granularity from one minute to one month.</p>
<h3>Create a metrics graph</h3>
<p>To create a Metrics Explorer graph that shows host VM maximum percentage CPU and inbound flows together for the past 30 minutes:</p>
<p>- Open Metrics Explorer by selecting See all Metrics on the VM's Monitoring tab or selecting Metrics from the VM's left navigation menu.</p>
<p>Open Metrics Explorer by selecting See all Metrics on the VM's Monitoring tab or selecting Metrics from the VM's left navigation menu.</p>
<p>- Scope and Metric Namespace are already populated for the host VM. Select Percentage CPU from the Metrics dropdown list.</p>
<p>Scope and Metric Namespace are already populated for the host VM. Select Percentage CPU from the Metrics dropdown list.</p>
<p>- Aggregation is automatically populated with Avg , but change it to Max .</p>
<p>Aggregation is automatically populated with Avg , but change it to Max .</p>
<p>- Select Add metric at upper left.</p>
<p>Select Add metric at upper left.</p>
<p>- Under Metric , select Inbound Flows . Leave Aggregation at Avg .</p>
<p>Under Metric , select Inbound Flows . Leave Aggregation at Avg .</p>
<p>- At upper right, select Local Time: Last 24 hours (Automatic - 15 minutes) , change it to Last 30 minutes , and select Apply .</p>
<p>At upper right, select Local Time: Last 24 hours (Automatic - 15 minutes) , change it to Last 30 minutes , and select Apply .</p>
<p>Your graph should look similar to the following screenshot:</p>
<h3>Check your knowledge</h3>
<h2>Unit 6.3.5 - Collect client performance counters by using VM insights</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/monitor-azure-vm-using-diagnostic-data/5-enable-vm-insights</p>
<h3>Collect client performance counters by using VM insights</h3>
<p>Besides monitoring your VM host's health, utilization, and performance, you need to monitor the software and processes running on your VM. These are called the VM guest or client. In this unit, you enable the Azure Monitor VM insights feature, which offers a quick way to start monitoring the VM client.</p>
<p>The VM client includes the operating system and other workloads and applications. To monitor the software running on your VM, you install the Azure Monitor Agent, which collects data from inside the VM. VM insights:</p>
<p>- Installs Azure Monitor Agent on your VM.</p>
<p>- Creates a DCR that collects and sends a predefined set of client performance data to a Log Analytics workspace.</p>
<p>- Presents the data in curated workbooks.</p>
<p>Although you don't need to use VM insights to install Azure Monitor Agent, create DCRs, or set up workbooks, VM insights makes setting up VM client monitoring easy. VM insights provides you with a basis for monitoring the performance of your VM client and mapping the processes running on your machine.</p>
<h3>Enable VM insights</h3>
<p>- In the Azure portal, on your VM's Overview page, select Insights from the left navigation menu under Monitoring .</p>
<p>In the Azure portal, on your VM's Overview page, select Insights from the left navigation menu under Monitoring .</p>
<p>- On the Insights page, select Enable .</p>
<p>On the Insights page, select Enable .</p>
<p>- Under Data collection rule , note the properties of the DCR that VM insights creates. In the DCR description, Processes and dependencies (Map) is set to Disabled , which you can change to Enabled or review this article on how-to if greyed out. Also a default Log Analytics workspace is created or assigned.</p>
<p>Under Data collection rule , note the properties of the DCR that VM insights creates. In the DCR description, Processes and dependencies (Map) is set to Disabled , which you can change to Enabled or review this article on how-to if greyed out. Also a default Log Analytics workspace is created or assigned.</p>
<p>- Select Configure . Configuration of the workspace and the agent installation typically takes 5 to 10 minutes. It can take another 5 to 10 minutes for data to become available to view in the portal.</p>
<p>Select Configure .</p>
<p>Configuration of the workspace and the agent installation typically takes 5 to 10 minutes. It can take another 5 to 10 minutes for data to become available to view in the portal.</p>
<p>- When the deployment finishes, confirm that the Azure Monitor Agent is installed by looking on the Properties tab of the VM's Overview page under Extensions + applications . On the Monitoring tab of the Overview page, under Performance and utilization , you can see that Guest OS metrics are now being collected.</p>
<p>When the deployment finishes, confirm that the Azure Monitor Agent is installed by looking on the Properties tab of the VM's Overview page under Extensions + applications .</p>
<p>On the Monitoring tab of the Overview page, under Performance and utilization , you can see that Guest OS metrics are now being collected.</p>
<h3>View VM insights</h3>
<p>VM insights creates a DCR that sends client VM performance counters to Azure Monitor Logs. Because the DCR sends its metrics to Azure Monitor Logs, you don't use Metrics Explorer to view the metrics data that VM insights collects.</p>
<p>To view the VM insights performance graphs and maps:</p>
<p>- Select Insights from the VM's left navigation menu under Monitoring .</p>
<p>Select Insights from the VM's left navigation menu under Monitoring .</p>
<p>- Near the top of the Insights page, select the Performance tab. The prebuilt VM insights Performance workbook shows charts and graphs with performance-related data for the current VM. You can customize the view by specifying a different Time range at the top of the page and different aggregations at the top of each graph. Select View Workbooks to select from other available prebuilt VM insights workbooks. Select Go To Gallery to select from a gallery of other VM insights workbooks and workbook templates, or to edit and create your own workbooks.</p>
<p>Near the top of the Insights page, select the Performance tab. The prebuilt VM insights Performance workbook shows charts and graphs with performance-related data for the current VM.</p>
<p>- You can customize the view by specifying a different Time range at the top of the page and different aggregations at the top of each graph.</p>
<p>You can customize the view by specifying a different Time range at the top of the page and different aggregations at the top of each graph.</p>
<p>- Select View Workbooks to select from other available prebuilt VM insights workbooks. Select Go To Gallery to select from a gallery of other VM insights workbooks and workbook templates, or to edit and create your own workbooks.</p>
<p>Select View Workbooks to select from other available prebuilt VM insights workbooks. Select Go To Gallery to select from a gallery of other VM insights workbooks and workbook templates, or to edit and create your own workbooks.</p>
<p>- If enabled earlier, select the Map tab on the Insights page to see the workbook for the Map feature. The map visualizes the VM's dependencies by discovering running process groups and processes that have active network connections over a specified time range.</p>
<p>If enabled earlier, select the Map tab on the Insights page to see the workbook for the Map feature. The map visualizes the VM's dependencies by discovering running process groups and processes that have active network connections over a specified time range.</p>
<h3>Check your knowledge</h3>
<h2>Unit 6.3.6 - Collect VM client event logs</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/monitor-azure-vm-using-diagnostic-data/6-collect-log-data</p>
<h3>Collect VM client event logs</h3>
<p>Azure Monitor Metrics and VM insights performance counters help you identify performance anomalies, and alert when thresholds are reached. But to analyze the root causes of issues you detect, you need to analyze log data to see which system events caused or contributed to the issues. In this unit, you set up a DCR to collect Linux VM Syslog data, and view the log data in Azure Monitor Log Analytics by using a simple Kusto Query Language (KQL) query.</p>
<p>VM insights installs the Azure Monitor Agent, and creates a DCR that collects predefined performance counters, maps process dependencies, and presents the data in prebuilt workbooks. You can create your own DCRs to collect VM performance counters that the VM insights DCR doesn't collect, or to collect log data.</p>
<p>When you create DCRs in the Azure portal, you can select from a range of performance counters and sampling rates or add custom performance counters. Alternatively, you can select from a predefined set of log types and severity levels or define custom log schemas. You can associate a single DCR to any or all VMs in your subscription, but you might need multiple DCRs to collect different types of data from different VMs.</p>
<h3>Create a DCR to collect log data</h3>
<p>In the Azure portal, search for and select monitor to go to the Azure Monitor Overview page.</p>
<h4>Create a Data Collection Endpoint</h4>
<p>You must have a data collection endpoint to send log data to. To create an endpoint:</p>
<p>- In the Azure Monitor left navigation menu under Settings , select Data Collection Endpoints .</p>
<p>- On the Data Collection Endpoints page, select Create .</p>
<p>- On the Create data collection endpoint page, for Name , enter linux-logs-endpoint .</p>
<p>- Select the same Subscription , Resource group , and Region as your VM uses.</p>
<p>- Select Review + create , and when validation passes, select Create .</p>
<h4>Create the Data Collection Rule</h4>
<p>To create the DCR to collect the event logs:</p>
<p>- In the Monitor left navigation menu under Settings , select Data Collection Rules .</p>
<p>In the Monitor left navigation menu under Settings , select Data Collection Rules .</p>
<p>- On the Data Collection Rules page, you can see the DCR that VM insights created. Select Create to create a new data collection rule.</p>
<p>On the Data Collection Rules page, you can see the DCR that VM insights created. Select Create to create a new data collection rule.</p>
<p>- On the Basics tab of the Create Data Collection Rule screen, provide the following information: Rule name : Enter collect-events-linux . Subscription , Resource Group , and Region : Select the same as for your VM. Platform Type : Select Linux .</p>
<p>On the Basics tab of the Create Data Collection Rule screen, provide the following information:</p>
<p>- Rule name : Enter collect-events-linux .</p>
<p>- Subscription , Resource Group , and Region : Select the same as for your VM.</p>
<p>- Platform Type : Select Linux .</p>
<p>- Select Next: Resources or the Resources tab.</p>
<p>Select Next: Resources or the Resources tab.</p>
<p>- On the Resources screen, select Add resources .</p>
<p>On the Resources screen, select Add resources .</p>
<p>- On the Select a scope screen, select the monitored-linux-vm VM, and then select Apply .</p>
<p>On the Select a scope screen, select the monitored-linux-vm VM, and then select Apply .</p>
<p>- On the Resources screen, select Enable Data Collection Endpoints .</p>
<p>On the Resources screen, select Enable Data Collection Endpoints .</p>
<p>- Under Data collection endpoint for the monitored-linux-vm , select the linux-logs-endpoint you created.</p>
<p>Under Data collection endpoint for the monitored-linux-vm , select the linux-logs-endpoint you created.</p>
<p>- Select Next: Collect and deliver , or the Collect and deliver tab.</p>
<p>Select Next: Collect and deliver , or the Collect and deliver tab.</p>
<p>- On the Collect and deliver tab, select Add data source .</p>
<p>On the Collect and deliver tab, select Add data source .</p>
<p>- On the Add data source screen, under Data source type , select Linux Syslog .</p>
<p>On the Add data source screen, under Data source type , select Linux Syslog .</p>
<p>- On the Add data source screen, select Next: Destination or the Destination tab, and make sure the Account or namespace matches the Log Analytics workspace that you want to use. You can use the default Log Analytics workspace that VM insights set up, or create or use another Log Analytics workspace.</p>
<p>On the Add data source screen, select Next: Destination or the Destination tab, and make sure the Account or namespace matches the Log Analytics workspace that you want to use. You can use the default Log Analytics workspace that VM insights set up, or create or use another Log Analytics workspace.</p>
<p>- On the Add data source screen, select Add data source .</p>
<p>On the Add data source screen, select Add data source .</p>
<p>- On the Create Data Collection Rule screen, select Review + create , and when validation passes, select Create .</p>
<p>On the Create Data Collection Rule screen, select Review + create , and when validation passes, select Create .</p>
<h3>View log data</h3>
<p>You can view and analyze the log data collected by your DCR by using KQL log queries. A set of sample KQL queries is available for VMs, but you can write a query to look at the events your DCR is collecting.</p>
<p>- On your VM's Overview page, select Logs from the left navigation menu under Monitoring . Log Analytics opens an empty query window with the scope set to your VM. You can also access log data by selecting Logs from the left navigation of the Azure Monitor Overview page. If necessary, select Select scope at the top of the query window to scope the query to the desired Log Analytics workspace and VM. Note The Queries window with sample queries might open when you open Log Analytics. For now, close this window, because you're going to manually create a simple query.</p>
<p>On your VM's Overview page, select Logs from the left navigation menu under Monitoring . Log Analytics opens an empty query window with the scope set to your VM.</p>
<p>You can also access log data by selecting Logs from the left navigation of the Azure Monitor Overview page. If necessary, select Select scope at the top of the query window to scope the query to the desired Log Analytics workspace and VM.</p>
<p>Note</p>
<p>The Queries window with sample queries might open when you open Log Analytics. For now, close this window, because you're going to manually create a simple query.</p>
<p>- In the empty query window, type Syslog , and then select Run . All the system log events the DCR collected within the Time range are displayed.</p>
<p>In the empty query window, type Syslog , and then select Run . All the system log events the DCR collected within the Time range are displayed.</p>
<p>- You can refine your query to identify events of interest. For example, you can display only the events that had a SeverityLevel of warning .</p>
<p>You can refine your query to identify events of interest. For example, you can display only the events that had a SeverityLevel of warning .</p>
<h3>Check your knowledge</h3>
<h2>Unit 6.3.7 - Summary</h2>
<p>https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/monitor-azure-vm-using-diagnostic-data/7-summary</p>
<h3>Summary</h3>
<p>Azure Monitor helps you collect, analyze, and alert on various types of host and client monitoring data from your Azure VMs.</p>
<p>- Azure Monitor provides a set of VM host logs and performance and usage metrics for all Azure VMs.</p>
<p>- You can enable recommended alert rules when you create VMs or afterwards to alert on important VM host metrics.</p>
<p>- Azure Monitor Metrics Explorer lets you graph and analyze metrics for Azure VMs and other resources.</p>
<p>- VM insights provides a simple way to monitor important VM client performance counters and processes running on your VM.</p>
<p>- You can create data collection rules to collect other metrics and logs from your VM client.</p>
<p>- You can use Log Analytics to query and analyze log data.</p>
<p>Now that you understand these tools, you're confident that Azure Monitor can effectively monitor your Azure VMs and help you keep your website running effectively.</p>
<h3>Clean up resources</h3>
<p>In this module, you created a VM in your Azure subscription. To prevent further charges for this VM, you can delete it or the resource group that contains it.</p>
<p>To delete the resource group that contains the VM and its resources:</p>
<p>- Select the Resource group link at the top of the Essentials section on the VM's Overview page.</p>
<p>- At the top of the resource group page, select Delete resource group .</p>
<p>- On the delete screen, select the checkbox next to Apply force delete for selected virtual machines and virtual machine scale sets . Enter the resource group name in the field, and then select Delete .</p>
<h3>Learn more</h3>
<p>To learn more about monitoring your VMs with Azure Monitor, see the following resources:</p>
<p>- Azure Monitor documentation</p>
<p>- Monitor virtual machines with Azure Monitor</p>
<p>- Supported metrics with Azure Monitor</p>
<p>- Send Azure Monitor Activity log data</p>
<p>- Supported metrics for Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines</p>
<p>- Overview of VM insights</p>
<p>- Create interactive reports with VM insights workbooks</p>
<p>- Use the Map feature of VM insights to understand application components</p>
<p>- Azure Monitor Agent overview</p>
<p>- Collect data with Azure Monitor Agent</p>
<p>- Tutorial: Collect guest logs and metrics from an Azure virtual machine</p></body>
</html>
